 
This repository contains solutions to labs on Digital Image Processing. Each lab focuses on a different aspect of image processing, as described below.

## Lab 1: Scaling an image
The goal of this lab is to convert an image (Lena) to grayscale and scale it by factors of 1, 2, and 0.5 using bilinear interpolation. The results are compared with the built-in functions for scaling by the same factors.

## Lab 2: De-noising an image
In this lab, the aim is to get a good quality image from a noisy image. A noisy image is generated by adding Gaussian noise with mean 0 and variance 1 to the original image (Lena). The de-noised image is found as the average of the noisy images. The results are displayed for different values of n, the number of noisy images.

## Lab 3: Downsampling an image
The objective of this lab is to downsample a grayscale Lena image using the cv2.resize() function and also by reducing the number of intensity levels. The original image and the downsampled images are displayed for comparison.

## Lab 4: Rotating an image
The goal of this lab is to find the angle of inclination of the Leaning Tower of Pisa image using appropriate rotations with bilinear interpolation. The rotation is performed using both user-defined and predefined functions.

## Lab 5 : Histogram equalization and Histogram Matching
In this lab we need perfrom Histogram equalization on pout-dark image and Histogram Matching on pout-dark image keeping reference image as pout-bright image. These operations performed using both user defined and using inbuilt function

## Lab 6 : Correlate each noisy Lena image with Gaussian filters
In this lab we take a regular lena image and we add salt and pepper noise to it in increseing order of noise and make 10 copies of noisy images and then we correlate the each noisy image with Gaussian filters of varing sizes say 3*3 ,5*5 ,7*7 and repeating the same process using user defined correlation function


# Requirements
* Python 3
* OpenCV library
* Numpy library
* Matplotlib.pyplot
* skimage
*imgaug
